quick overview this is our agenda for
today so we have just finished up our
virtual copy meet-and-greet those of you
that missed it we we were doing intros
in the chat
feel free to introduce yourself say
where you're from and how you work on
ipfs overview we're gonna have five
different present 15-minute
presentations starting with me talking
about all the cool stuff happening in
the ecosystem that Stephan giving you
highlights from the ODOT five release
that went out on Tuesday then a demon
Jacob who are diving deeper on some of
those improvements and what you what you
get out of them we'll take a short bio
break or for folks to pause and then
another two talks one from Carson on all
the cool stuff happening with textile
tooling and then one from Matt over from
pinata about all the stuff they're doing
around pinning and then we'll take a
ten-minute break I have a special
surprise for everyone and then we'll
break out into three three breakout
rooms one for the ODA five release Q&A
diving deeper kind of special topics one
on for folks who are new to ipfs and
just getting started and want tips and
tricks and to find each other and
connect and then one for lightning demos
and the link is actually down here if
anyone wants to see the Lightning demos
and I believe this doc is in the chat
but Lila will probably stick it in there
again so everyone can find it and stay
well mostly on time what best alrighty
well I wish I could see more of you as
I'm presenting but I'm gonna go ahead
and get started anyway um I'm super
psyched to talk to everyone mostly gonna
be focusing on all of the amazing q1
highlights in the ipfs ecosystem it's
been a freaking amazing quarter there's
so much cool stuff that's happening
thanks to all of the hard work everyone
is doing in the whiter I confess
ecosystem to push the project forward so
huge congrats to everyone we have a lot
of stuff to get through so excited for
it for those of you who are joining for
the first time and maybe are new to ipfs
or trying to understand what what even
is IP us I found this random link on
Twitter and I clicked it and now I'm
here we shall do and ipfs aims to make
the Internet and the web work
peer-to-peer so instead of having
centralized servers which all all
devices connect to or send data through
as middlemen we want every device and
every node in the network to be able to
connect and send data directly to each
other which is faster it's more
resilient and it helps kind of be
reorient the web and there's a couple
that look at the main way that we do
that is through content addressing where
instead of addressing data by where it's
located in the network so you have to go
to that central server we address data
by what it is so instead of great you
have to go to facebook.com to fetch you
know as dot PNG this particular image
instead we can address that data and
anyone can serve it to you and you can
be you know one hundred percent
confident that the data that you're
getting from random Joe somewhere on the
Internet is the thing you wanted maybe
of us aims to address a ton of different
problems I'll highlight a couple one is
censorship so the idea that anyone can
go and you know take one central
intermediary kind of exert authoritarian
control or hold on to data and regulate
them and then no one can have access to
Wikipedia anymore and it's gone the idea
that anyone can can serve the content
that they care about
another example is is just an efficiency
of just hitting the same central server
over and over again instead of fetching
data a peer-to-peer and more resilient
lis and also resiliency so if the
network suffers faults or if there's a
break down making sure that you can
still get access to content so links
don't break and you can still find the
data that you're looking for that works
particularly for like the offline use
case of we're all sitting in a room we
would love to collaborate on something
but oh no the Wi-Fi has gone out and now
we can no longer access Google Docs to
take our notes just making everything
work offline first so IP FS is part
this the stack of tools and projects we
build on top of multi formats live p2p
and IP LD and we use these tools every
kind of joke that ipfs is just a trench
coat
wrapping IP LD hood p2p and UNIX FS but
but this idea that we we have a
peer-to-peer networking layer we content
address all of our data and then ipfs is
the part that distributes it in a global
file system we have you could probably
my slides are fine
stop moving my mouse you'll see my
subtext but we have a huge open-source
community it's phenomenal it's across
the world we clearly need to add some
more nodes in in Africa because like
there's people from Nairobi pushing
things forward but over 4,000
contributors I really need to go back
and update this number who are helping
push the ipfs project forward from
around the world we should add all of
you and all of your nodes to to this
this visualization and huge thank you
because this is really the lifeblood of
the IFS project and what makes it so
exciting to work in this space and work
with all of you and just bringing
together the community and being able to
learn from each other and push push
things forward alright a couple of fun
metrics before we we dive into all of
the awesome highlights we on an IPF
s-http way which we've seen grow a ton
just in the past quarter
the HTTP gateway is getting over 13
million requests per day which is a four
to five X increase since beginning kind
of end of last year which is super
exciting and that's serving you know
five five terabytes of data or more so
really exciting growth and usage there
this is how folks who do not yet have
ipfs embedded either through ipfs
desktop or running a node locally or
kind of they're there on their upgrade
path to to ipfs are using and bridging I
give us into the HTTP web to world we
also saw a ton of amazing IP
it's amazing we now have hundreds of
thousands of nodes who are all
participating in the network a number of
those are servers many of those are also
DHT clients where they're benefiting but
but you know peers interacting and
collaborating in the network and then
finally most importantly is using
ecosystem of projects that are building
on ipfs if I feel free to check Twitter
there is a link to constantly update and
improve this gram in figma so it's open
to everyone to collaborate on but this
is how we kind of keep track of and see
all the amazing groups that are coming
in and participating in the IPS
ecosystem and there's more and more
happening and they're doing amazing
amazing things so thank you all for
being a part and you know helping
contribute to keeping this list up today
all right the main things to talk about
integrations new IP FS powered sites
that are coming up and then ipfs project
upgrades things within the core protocol
that that we're making better and
improving over the course of of the
quarter all right so diving into some of
these first and very excitingly opera
launch default support for ipfs in their
Android browser just a just about a
month ago and that's super exciting it's
bringing it's just making it much more
accessible and available for everyone to
join the ipfs community to make use of
all of the the proliferation of sites
and projects that are building on ipfs
and also really exciting to see from a
browser upgrade perspective these tools
getting more and more embedded into the
applications and browsers that everyone
uses every day so definitely excited to
to see see that progress happening and
you know jazzed for for what's to come
from another upgrade perspective as well
also launched this past quarter was
ceramic which is building on IP of us
and IP LD to do a identity self
sovereign identity
I did layer that building building on
top to do kind of authenticated
documents which is super cool and and
excited to see where that one goes
we also ipfs was launched as the default
external storage system over Dropbox in
Wolfram language which is super cool and
so if you if you are a Wolfram language
user would love to see the cool things
that you you create and put on ipfs from
there looking at the the various sites
that came to ipfs and it really was
faith and tooling that people have been
creating in this ecosystem the work
separable domains did with making it
really easy to you know use a template
to get your site up on ipfs or
drag-and-drop files making it much much
smoother to just get up and running with
a decentralized website also the work
that a nested and temporal making it
easy to upload folders and quickly get
up and running with a Dobby the dress
and the awesome work fleex been doing to
automate website deployments from github
and make it very very smooth and easy to
go from and if one you know build thing
deploying and getting things up there so
I but that one was a fun one for me to
like figure this all and they have SSL
built-in so hey my site has SSL great
and also we saw bigger bigger web sites
also coming to ipfs and if tyrion org
put their their view press site thanks
to the the tools that Hugo and Chris
Waring and a couple other folks in the
project created in order to get the ipfs
doc site up on ipfs they use the same
tools to get aetherium up as well so go
to syria be that link and you can see
the etherion web site working on top of
my professor which is great and also in
terms of new exciting websites in thank
you face
brave put their their official store for
all of their fun brave gear up on ipfs
using origin which is very slick very
nice i bought
a t-shirt so I now have a brave t-shirt
from origin bought on ipfs which is
pretty fun some marketplaces are working
alright and then the last section
is project upgrades of all the cool
stuff that's happening first thing that
happened at the beginning of the quarter
is we launched a beta of our new ipfs
stock site which is beautiful it has
search it search autocompletes to
suggest the passages that you're looking
for which is really nice it's much you
know better organized it's cleaner it's
nicer and it runs on ipfs so definitely
go go give it a drive I believe it's
coming as the default very very shortly
also went out at the beginning of the
quarter was an async await refactor
which was a huge deal for everyone who's
using JSI PFS that are debugging it's
leaner it's smaller it's faster better
in every way and huge congrats to the
JSI PFS team for this amazing launch I
know a ton of hard work went into it and
it was a long time coming so amazing
amazing job
we also shared the collaboration we did
with Netflix on making ipfs bit swap
faster specifically for when you have
many many peers that are all trying to
distribute a shared image like in their
their build process and it was amazing
to people to work together and at the
end if you look at the updated metrics
for for the ODOT 5rc
making transfer speeds about 3x faster
which is amazing also launched very
recently we started as a it's kind of a
an early access beta where we were
testing some things out a kind of soft
soft launch in preview but it's recently
gone one dot o was the IPS dev grants
program already funded over ten grants
and bounties with inc another you know
eight to ten in flight as of now so
really cool stuff happening here a great
place to jump in if you want to you know
make a patch or help write some
documentation or you have a larger
feature or integration that you want to
work on so some really cool stuff there
also
citing Li coming out of out of some of
those conversations is rust ipfs I hear
rust has a very passionate community
that thinks I people should have been
built in rust from the get-go so
equilibrium Labs has kicked this one off
and they're building a rust ipfs
implementation and community so if
you're excited about a the the rust
language or just getting to hack on a
new IEP FS implementation definitely go
talk to them everything awesome progress
and finally the thing we're all here to
talk about is the IP FS about five
launched which was a big upgrade to go
ipfs and our public network we're gonna
hear a lot more about that soon so I'm
not going to talk so much about it and
I'll let Steven and a Dean dive more
into it but the the police that I give
us aa five comes from is is very much
focusing on what what our goal was for
q1 and q2 2020 across all of the IPM s
working groups which was speeding up
content wrapping content routing
probably sounds like jargon will define
this for people who aren't familiar with
it this is how how you can find
information in the IP FS distributed
network and how quickly you can get
access to that data and then the next
step after that would be transferring
that data from the party that has it to
you so you can say just play it as a
website or you know have a data set that
you've downloaded or something along
those lines and so this was where we
identified in the network that we needed
to make improvements in order to support
the community there was a ton of
feedback that went into identifying this
as the pain point to focus on for the
first two quarters of 2020 and our goal
that we set for ourselves for mid-year
is to have 95th percentile content
routing speed less than five seconds so
we're we're working towards that goal
and making awesome progress a quick a
quick snapshot of how how far we've come
just in the first three months back in
our previous release we had average
content routing it this is like using a
public network test that's like pinging
between two nodes that we spent up
randomly within the network
an average time of eight seconds and
95th percentile is 42 seconds maybe too
slow and in this new updated improved
release we've gotten the average speed
down to 1.5 seconds so much more
reasonable and our 95th percentile is 14
to 20 seconds and that's with only
12,000 nodes which is a small percentage
of the network having upgraded to O top
5 as more people upgrade these metrics
are going to get better and better and
better because that means that we're
going to have a better distribution of
nodes participating the DHT able to find
and wrap content faster so upgrade today
if you want to see these metrics get
even faster alright I have a couple
small sneak peeks and then I'll pass off
because I know I'm already over time one
is test ground 2 is all the work we've
been doing on the developer experience
team trying to make ipfs easier to
engage with as a project and then some
more cool new integrations on the line
so first off test ground run is the the
tool that we we built and used in order
to benchmark and THD it's a large
distributed network there's hundreds of
thousands of nodes you need to make sure
that from a complex network analysis
perspective but the improvements and
changes we are making we're gonna be
better for everyone participating in the
network so very rigorous testing went
into identifying the whether the
improvements we were making were actual
real improvements and so secret secret
to doing this reliably was it was test
ground was the tool that we built and
you'll hear more about this next week if
you tuned in to ready layer one where
we're wool who's leading this project is
going to be giving a talk about it so
definitely check it out and stay tuned
and there's also a ton of awesome new
def x improvements that have been
landing thanks to a lot of work by
Hector on on my PFS team thinking about
how do we make it easier to route people
to the information they need and make it
an easier experience of using and
contributing to ipfs so a couple of
improvements ease already launched and
made was one making it more clear we had
I don't even know hundreds of different
repositories in the ipfs org so clearly
marking which of these are archived or
aren't under active development and
iteration so that you can still find all
the content and see it but that you
aren't se gonna be creating issues often
some repo somewhere that that no one is
a monitoring and helping maintain and
then also made a new page specifically
for getting help on the ipfs website
which has a lot of awesome suggestions
if you are looking for technical support
you're looking to discuss a new idea or
just get in touch with like-minded folks
and so definitely take take a look at IP
FS that IO / help if you if you want to
be route into places where you can do
that effectively and to leave you with
there's a lot of awesome new things on
on the docket for for q2 some cool new
integrations and projects that are
happening here so take a look at rust
there's a new set of projects around mix
and qyx which is the the tool that i
give us Wikipedia uses for doing their
offline Wikipedia mirror and cache and
then open street maps there's really
cool things happening here a lot of them
coming through the the depth Grants
Program so very excited about that
but most of thank you all for being an
amazing community everything that you do
is the what makes the hike of us project
kind of a thriving exciting place to be
and helps push us all forward